All right in this video we're going to talk about and look at meta tags which are tags or snippets that
describe a page's content and they don't appear in the body of the web page anywhere nobody sees them.
It just describes some stuff about the page.
So we're going to look at some of the popular ones including the ones that are used in search engines.
So let's create a new file we'll call it 0 3 underscore Metta underscore tags dot h t AML and I'm gonna
generate my content with Emmet.
So I'm going to use exclamation tab or enter and notice that it adds three meta tags.
It also adds a laying attribute which you don't need in your age team I'll tag what it just describes
the language is English.
And these are all attributes so tags have attributes.
We're gonna be using them along the way and they describe basically their properties of the tag.
So all of these are meta right.
So the only difference is the different attributes.
That's all we can tell what what each one is.
So the first one here is char set which is the character set and this specifies the character encoding
of the page.
So UTF 8 is actually the default.
It's the character encoding for unicode.
It's not extremely important to understand how this works or what it is.
It's we could actually remove this and it would still be UTF 8 and the unicode standard covers almost
all characters punctuation punctuation symbols things like that.
So that's what that is is the character set that this page uses the next one here is pretty important
for Responsive design.
This is the viewport tag and responsive design it.
It's all about making your your website or your user interface responsive to different screen sizes.
OK so you want your Web site to look good on a desktop a laptop smartphone a tablet and there's different
strategies mostly to do with CSX on making your site look good on these devices.
But one of the things you want to do is add this viewport tag and you want to set the content value.
You want to set a couple of things in the content which is 1 the width you want to set it to whatever
the width of the device and the scale should be set to one point zero.
So if you've ever gone on a nonresponsive site on a smartphone and you had to drag your finger over
to kind of see the rest of the site that probably doesn't have the viewport set OK so you wanted to
actually show the entire Web site or the entire interface.
So that's what the viewport tag does it's actually really important.
So this next one has to do with browser compatibility this HDP a quiver.
You can see the content equals i.e. equals edge so i.e. is referring to the old Internet Explorer browser
which is not used very much at all anymore.
Windows now ships with Ed shore basically saying we want to use the edge standards and Microsoft browsers
have been just a nightmare since since the beginning of web development.
Back when I started it was Internet Explorer 6 which never rendered things correctly.
You always had to do little hacks here and there and you're see assassin in your javascript to get things
to work.
So even now i.e. 11 which is the latest version is still very clunky but not too many people use it.
I think if I look at my analytics on my Web site it's like zero point three percent or something ridiculous
like that so it's not it's stream extremely important to support those browsers anymore unless you're
building a Web site that may have like a lot of elderly people as viewers because a lot of them have
older computers that they haven't updated that's still run i.e.
All right.
So now what I want to look at is met attacks that have to do with search engines.
So we're gonna talk a little bit about search engines and the title is actually really important.
I'm just gonna put meta tags here but you're in your title.
You want to have you want to put something that really describes the page.
You also want to put keywords that you want to rank for well on the search engines.
Now MCO which is search engine optimization has changed dramatically from years ago likes the certain
things that used to be really important are not anymore.
And I'm not an NCO expert so I'm not going to speak too much on that but the title is what shows in
the search engine.
So if we jump into chrome here and let's open up a new tab and by the way this time that you see here
in the background this is a chrome a Google Chrome extension called moment if you're interested.
I know a lot of people ask me about it.
So I figured I'd just tell you guys it has to dos and stuff like that it's pretty cool.
But let's go ahead and go to Google dot com and let's search for like let's say Miami web design and
we look at these Web sites that show up this large text here.
This is the title.
OK whatever you have in the title for the page is going to show up here.
Most of the time if it doesn't match the pages content Google might take it upon itself to put something
in here but usually it's going to be your title.
And then this text here the smaller text is actually the description met a tag which I'll show you in
a second.
But if we go to this site and which I'm not affiliated at all with and if we could go ahead and view
the source code with command option you or control you on a Windows machine and we look at the title
you'll see it's Miami Web site design company digital agency and then the name of the company.
So that's a good choice for a title.
It has some keywords in there and also as the company name and you can see if I hover over the title.
That's exactly it should should pop up here.
Well usually does.
I'm not sure why it's not popping up but usually it'll pop up and show you the whole title.
There we go.
And you can see that it matches what is in the HDL.
And then if we look at the meta description tag which is see where is it's here's the viewport.
Search for it.
So if we do control F and search for a description here it is so meta.
Name equals description in the content you'll see this is exactly what is showing up in the search engine.
So fuse is a full service Miami website design company.
If we go back to the the results here fuse is a full service Miami website design company.
So this is going to be your description this is your title.
So let's go ahead and add in a description.
So we're gonna say meta and we want to use the name
description and content you say whatever.
I'm just gonna put this is my Web site description but you would want to put something that's that specifies
what's on the page.
You also want to put some keywords in here.
I don't think the description holds too much weight but it is what what the user sees when they search
for your site so that's pretty important.
And another search engine related tag is the keywords met a tag.
Now this keywords tag used to hold a lot of weight like years and years ago but now it's not it doesn't
really matter it's just for describing the pages content so it's not like it's going to make or break
your site in the search engine but generally you want to keep between like 8 and 12 words.
So let's say this was a web web development company we'd put like web development maybe web design
maybe ask your company name or something like that.
So you generally want to have around 8 or so of these keywords.
All right so let's see the last one that I want to show you is is if you don't want your site to rank
in search engines if you don't want it to show up at all you would use the robot's meta tag.
So let's say maiden name equals robots and for the content you would want to put no index so that it
doesn't index your site in the search engine and then no follow.
So it doesn't follow any links on the page and index those.
All right.
So for some reason you don't want your site to show up in Google and Bing and all the other engines
you would just put this in here and I'll just put a comment do not index page.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
I'm going to go ahead and save that.
I'm not going to go over any of the other ones right now because they're really not that important.
If you want to look look look up some of the other ones on your own you can do that but I don't want
to throw too much stuff at you that you don't really need right now.
So that's it guys in the next video we're going to start to look at topography look at creating headings
in paragraphs and bolded text and stuff like that.